
Twitter Health Metrics Proposal Submission 
==========================================

By [Twitter
Inc.](https://blog.twitter.com/official/en_us/authors.Twitter.html)


Thursday,
1 March 2018


We’re committing to helping increase the collective health, openness,
and civility of public conversation around the world, and to hold
ourselves publicly accountable toward progress. By measuring our
contribution to the overall health of the public conversation, we
believe we can more holistically approach and measure our impact on the
world for years to come.

Twitter’s health will be built and measured by how we help encourage
more healthy debate, conversations, and critical thinking; conversely,
abuse, spam and manipulation will detract from it. We are looking to
partner with outside experts to help us identify how we measure the
health of Twitter, keep us accountable to share our progress with the
world and establish a way forward for the long-term.

This approach is inspired by work from others in the industry. Cortico,
a non-profit research organization, has spent time to more deeply
understand the concept of [measuring conversational
health](http://www.cortico.ai/blog/2018/2/29/public-sphere-health-indicators)
and developed four indicators to measure it: shared attention, shared
reality, variety of opinion, and receptivity. We believe that we can
identify indicators of conversational health that are even more specific
to Twitter and its impact.

We don’t have all of the answers and cannot do this alone, but know that
the outcome will be stronger when we look to experts around the world
for counsel and support. If you’re interested in helping us define what
health means for Twitter and how we should approach measuring it, please
submit your proposal through the form below by Friday, April 13.

**To Apply**

Applicants should submit a proposal through the online form available
below by Friday, April 13, that includes:

-   Contact information (name, email, organizational details)
-   Your proposed health metrics, and methods for capturing, measuring,
    evaluating and reporting on such metrics
-   Anticipated resource requirements and methodology
-   Proposed output from your proposal and estimated time needed to
    capture, measure and evaluate health metrics
-   Relevant, peer-reviewed, publications and papers

Please make clear in your proposal if this is a joint application with
another institution.

**Award**

Successful applicants will collaborate directly with Twitter’s team,
receive public data access and meaningful funding for their research.
Funding will be provided as an unrestricted gift to the proposer’s
organization(s), to be provided in full at the start of the project.

Our expectation is that successful projects will produce peer-reviewed,
publicly available, open-access research articles and open source
software whenever possible.

**Timeline**

Submissions are due Friday, April 13, and selected applicants will be
invited to share further details on their proposals during May and June.
We expect to announce the first selected projects in July.

**Terms of Agreement**

*This proposal request in no way constitutes an agreement between
Twitter and any applicant.  The issuance of this proposal request does
not imply that Twitter is making an offer to do business. Twitter
reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to cancel this solicitation
and proposal request at any time during the process.  This proposal
request is not and shall not be considered an “agreement to negotiate.”
Twitter reserves the right to make any award, group of awards, or no
award as it determines in its sole discretion. Twitter may, in its
discretion, amend, supplement, terminate, modify, negotiate or otherwise
change any provision or part of this proposal request, including but not
limited to the evaluation criteria, the process used for evaluation,
and/or the expected timeline, at any time prior. Any award of this
contract will be made to applicant(s) at the sole discretion of Twitter
after consideration of the factors stated above.  Twitter shall provide
only public Twitter data (which shall be used solely for the purposes
stated above) and such use shall be subject to additional terms and
conditions (including, but not limited to, terms similar to Twitter’s
[Developer Terms](https://developer.twitter.com/en/developer-terms)).
Further terms may be included in a contract with successful
applications.*

 

